Overview

This project is a lightweight hybrid classifier that detects “GNOME confusion” in Linux-related posts by analyzing both:

Desktop screenshots (image-based signal)

Post title + body text (language-based signal)

It is designed primarily for Reddit posts, especially beginner-focused Linux subreddits, where users often become confused after accidentally switching desktop environments or triggering GNOME Shell’s overview mode.

The goal is NOT to identify GNOME usage in general, but to estimate how likely a user is confused by GNOME and how severe that confusion is.

This project does not train any models. It uses a pre-trained CLIP model and deterministic heuristics.

What this project does

Uses OpenCLIP (ViT-B-32, OpenAI weights) to score whether an image resembles GNOME Shell

Uses keyword and phrase heuristics to detect confusion language in text

Combines image and text signals into a single score

Classifies the result into a severity category

Severity reflects user confusion impact, not certainty of GNOME detection.

What this project intentionally does NOT do

No web scraping

No paid APIs

No custom ML training

No background services

No moderation actions

It is meant to be embedded into a Reddit bot or run manually for testing.

Dependencies

Required Python packages:

torch

open_clip_torch

pillow

You will also need:

Python 3.10+

A working PyTorch install (CPU is fine, CUDA optional)

Example installation (pip):

pip install torch pillow open_clip_torch

On first run, model weights will be downloaded automatically.

How it works (high level)

Image scoring:

The image is embedded using CLIP

Compared against GNOME-related prompts

Compared against non-GNOME desktop prompts (KDE, i3, etc.)

The difference is passed through a sigmoid to produce a score between 0 and 1

Text scoring:

The title and body are scanned for:

GNOME-related keywords

Confusion phrases (e.g. “desktop is gone”, “tablet UI”)

Negative phrases indicating flex posts or unixporn-style posts

The final text score is normalized to [0, 1]

Score combination:

Image score and text score are weighted and combined

If no confusion text is detected, the final score is dampened

Severity classification:

The final score is mapped to a severity label

Severity scale

Score < 0.1 : medium
0.1 – 0.3 : high
0.3 – 0.7 : severe

0.7 : catastrophe

These labels are intentionally exaggerated and are meant for internal categorization, not user-facing messaging.

Why text gating exists

Desktop screenshots alone are not enough to infer confusion.

Minimalist desktops, tiling window managers, and unixporn-style posts often visually resemble GNOME Shell but do not indicate confusion.

If the text score is zero, the final score is automatically reduced to prevent false escalation.

Known limitations

CLIP cannot perfectly distinguish minimalist desktops

Image scores around 0.45–0.55 are normal for Linux desktops

Text heuristics are English-only

This is not a general-purpose desktop environment classifier

These limitations are intentional trade-offs to avoid overengineering.

How to run

Run the script directly:

python project.py

You will be prompted for:

Image filename (local path)

Reddit post title

Reddit post body

The script will output:

Image score

Text score

Final combined score

Severity label

Typical use cases

Filtering Reddit posts for GNOME confusion

Auto-crossposting confused users to a private help subreddit

Offline testing of GNOME-related screenshots

Experimenting with hybrid ML + rule-based systems

Warnings you may see

Hugging Face unauthenticated download warnings

QuickGELU mismatch warnings

These are normal, harmless, and do not affect correctness.
